# PortfolioAnalysis
This is Python code for analysis of a portfolio model of value chains and similarly networked chains of transmitted values.

Imagine a value chain where raw ingredients go into simple products, and then those products are integrated into more complex products, which then get integrated into even more complex prducts, and so on. This could be a porfolio of ingredients that go into a restaurant menu, or construction materials that go into fabricating machines or building, or financial products that roll up into a nested value chain. This modeling technique calculates how value is transmitted from the simplest raw materials up the levels of complexity in the value chain.

Learn more about the math behind this at https://www.prioritysystem.com/reasons4i.html


I haven't given much thought to finance. Is GM rolling out larger EV cars and trucks? I can't remember why EVs are a thing - is it competition with China? Does building the platforms involve web development / tools that salespeople use in banks or dealerships? How is the lawsuit? Is it engaging to build the GPT tool, or stressful to deal with legalistics? That sounds shitty that the property company did that. I hate my HOA. I thought about getting a flipper zero just to mess with people, but better not to.

It's been crazy here with doing a wedding party, then our dog got sick, we adopted a second dog (a chihuaua), and I had to sort out the aftermath of getting rear ended, which worked out I guess, I bought my inlaws' car. Doesn't everyone hate car dealerships? I prefer to commute by metro now. Our mailbox won't unlock and we have to call a locksmith because the shitty HOA won't help. Everything is happening at once.

We had someone accept my co-statistician role and then she backed out. I guess it's a tight labor market. I'm so tired of NLP now. I did discover one other Python person in our agency (there are two of us in the entire agency), he told me about Ploomber which is handy for Python pipelines - maybe I don't learn enough about new packages. I have to update my GitHub while stuff is fresh in my mind. I'm most proud of reverse engineering the Mitre value chain portfolio analyis algorithm, that was the most "I have to pace the room and think of a creative solution" project I did. 

I still suspect that the government contract with SAS is for vaporware. I think there is a lot of government vaporware contracts. Graph analytics, for example is more salespitch than substance. My impression of SAS is pretty negative, overpriced, underdelivering. Is that a crazy thing to think? Do you use SAS at all? I hope I get somewhere with a hobby project on "predict the next frame" for satellite imagery, especially now that I feel like my job has nothing more to offer except the promotion potential. I know that airplane turbulence prediction is important. Maybe I can go back to NOAA to work on scientific software.

As for hobbies, I hit my goals with learning skateboarding tricks. The dobsonian telescope project was fun, I'm actually surprised it worked. Optics is magic. Hey, a homemade scope is cheaper than a big purchase for a toy I might not use. I'm going to get some actuators and see if I can make an equatorial mount for long exposures (probably too shaky but still fun).